  
 
          
                 
           
           
         
         
               
         
           
            
              
                
 
          
 
 
   
    
   
     
          
       
      
         
      
          
         
 
  
 
      
    
     
             
 bu privacy notice : student recruitment & admissions 
in sections 4 and 5, the main text gives an outline of the processing activity and a symbol to 
show the legal basis of that processing. the paragraphs marked “more information ” 
provide further information about how and why the processing is undertaken and a 
description of the legal basis for it. 
bu’s data protection officer (“dpo”) has oversight over data protection matters within bu. 
if you have any questions about this notice, or any queries or comments on the processing 
described in this notice, you can contact the dpo on dpo@bournemouth.ac.uk , or poole 
house, bournemouth university, fern barrow, poole bh12 5bb. 
changes to this notice : we review and update this notice at the start of each academic 
year and application cycle. if we make any significant changes during an application cycle, 
we will notify them to you using the email address we use for other communications with you. 
changes to your data:  please tell us promptly about any changes to the data we hold about 
you. privacy notice contents 
1. introduction: 
a. what is this notice? 
b. what is data protection? 
c. using this notice 
d. understanding the legal basis for processing of your data 
2. when and how we collect your data 
3. how we hold your data 
4. how and why we process your data for bu purposes 
5. overseas transfers of your personal data 
6. retention: how long will we keep your data for? 
7. your rights as a data subject and how to exercise them 
1. introduction 
(a) what is this notice? 
this notice applies to people who: 
• make enquiries with bu (including through third parties) or attend student recruitment 
events (both bu and external) with a view to possibly making an application to study at bu; 
and 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 1 
  
 
       
  
      
                  
     
       
 
        
       
     
         
      
               
          
          
     
     
      
           
     
 
   
        
    
   
            
    
      
    
       
         
       
       
  
   
      • apply to study at bu 
before the point at which they accept an offer of a place at bu. 
as a result of your engagement with bu, we will hold your “personal data”, i.e. information in a form 
that identifies you as individual [often referred to as “data” in this notice] . this notice explains how 
we use and protect your data. 
in this notice, “bu” "we", "our" and "us" refers to bournemouth university higher education 
corporation. we have separate privacy notices covering information relating to bu students , bu 
alumni, bu staff, people participating in bu research projects and people making enquiries or 
attending general public engagement events at or connected to bu. 
more information: the purpose of this notice is to enable you to understand the scope of 
the personal data which bu holds and uses that relates to you personally , and how this data 
will be handled by us. it covers use of your information within bu and the circumstances in 
which we will share your data with other organisations. 
we think it is important that you can understand how and why we use your data. we are 
also legally required to give you specific information about the processing of your data .  
for this reason, and because bu is a large organisation which needs to collect and use 
personal data for a range of purposes, this notice is quite long, and it contains some 
technical legal language. we have tried to make the notice as clear as possible a nd provide 
signposting so that you can find the information most relevant to you. see section (c) below 
for guidance on how to use the notice.  
(b) what is data protection? 
personal data is information relating to identifiable living individuals (known as “data subjects”) . use 
of personal data (including collecting data, sharing data or just holding it in files) is referred to as 
“data processing”.  to protect your interests and rights , organisations do not have complete 
freedom in how they use your personal data. they have to comply with d ata protection laws , which 
apply restrictions on when and how personal data can be processed .  processing of personal data is 
lawful only if it meets certain requirements or conditions . these are concerned with the purpose of 
the processing and how it is carried out. 
more information: our data protection laws are set out in the eu general data protection 
regulation (called “gdpr”) and the uk data protection act 2018. 
under these laws, bu is the data controller of the information it collects and processes as 
described in this notice. this means that it has the core legal responsibility to safeguard the information and ensure it is processed lawfully .  
in particular bu must: 
• take steps to ensure that the data it processes is accurate and up to date; 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 
2 
  
 
           
  
        
    
     
          
    
  
    
   
        
  
        
        
       
     
       
  
         
       
       
       
 
                
    
       
               
               
       
          
      
  
              
  
              
   • • give you clear information about its processing of your data, in one or more privacy 
notices like this one ; 
• only process your data for specific purposes described to you in a privacy notice , 
and only share your data with third pa rties as provided for in a privacy notice ; 
• keep your data secure ; and 
• respond within set timescales to certain enquiries or requests from individuals 
about the use of their data . 
information about your data protection rights as a data subject is set out later in section 7 of 
this n otice. 
(c) using this notice 
sections 4 and 5 of this notice identify and explain the data processing and data sharing carried out 
by bu .  
in these sections, against each description of a data processing or sharing activity you will 
automatically see a summary description of the processing and a colour- coded indicator of the legal 
basis of the processing (these are explained below).  this first level of information will also include any specific processing activities which we particularly need to highlight to you. you can then 
choose whether to click through to see a more detailed layer of information about the processing 
and its legal basis. 
(d)understanding the legal basis for processing of your data 
bu is using colour coding to provide a quick, easily -accessible indication of the legal basis for 
processing. this section explains how the colour coding in this notice links to conditions set out in 
the gdpr: references to articles are to the relevant provisions within the gdpr. the conditions 
listed here are those which bu is relying on in relation to the processing covered by this notice and 
may not be a complete list of all available conditions under the data protection legislation. further 
information about the basis of a specific category of processing can always be obtained by clicking 
through the links in section 4 of this notice. 
more information: conditions of processing for any personal data 
necessary for the performance of a contract between you and bu: this will be either 
the core contract between us , the bu student a greement, [ relating to any offer of a 
place to study at bu ] or an additional contract for other services. the terms of the 
bu student agreement can be found here: https://www.bournemouth.ac.uk/important -information [art 6.1(b)] 
necessary for compliance with a legal obligation on bu: we will identify the relevant 
obligation [art 6.1(c)] 
necessary to protect your vital interests or those of another person, i.e. to prevent or manage significant risks of harm [art 6.1(d)] 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 
3 
  
 
                     
      
  
   
           
 
 
          
       
 
    
         
      
         
           
      
    
       
                  
    
                       
   
              
       
   
   
   
        
  
        
          
   
    
   
   
  necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest: this would 
usually be an activity within bu’s core purpose as a statutory higher education 
corporation, to deliver higher education and carry out research, but might refer to a 
public interest task pursued by another organisation [art 6.1(e)] 
consent: this means that you have agreed that we can use your data for this specific purpose. you are able to withdraw your consent at any time. when you are asked 
for consent, you will also be given details of who to contact to withdraw your consent. 
necessary for legitimate interests pursued by bu or another organisation, where 
bu has determined that the processing represents an appropriate balance between 
its aims and your interests, rights and freedoms as a data subject.  where this 
applies, we will identify the purpose we are pursuing . [art 6.1(f)] 
more information: additional conditions of processing for special category data 
one of these must apply if we are processing any information about your racial or ethnic 
origin, political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, trade union membership, 
health or disability or your sex life or sexual orientation. these are referred to as “special 
categories” of data in the data protection legislation. 
explicit consent: this means that you have explicitly agreed that we can use your personal data for this specific purpose. you are able to withdraw your consent at any 
time. when you are asked for consent, you will also be given details of who to contact 
to withdraw your consent. [art 9.2(a)] 
necessary for the purposes of substantial public interest. where this applies, we will 
identify the relevant public interest [art 9.2(g)] 
necessary for research or statistical purposes, where it is considered that that the use 
of your data will be proportionate to the aims of the research and that your interests 
as a data subject will be appropriately safeguarded [art 9.2(j)] 
in addition, we can only process information about any criminal convictions you may have where 
this is in the substantial public interest and falls within a relevant description of processing set out in schedule 1 of the data protection act 2018. further information about the basis on which we 
process this information is set out later in this notice. 
2. when and how we collect your data 
we collect and hold information provided by you through: 
• enquiry forms 
• other web -based or printed forms 
• email communications 
• telephone calls 
• live chat messages 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 4 
  
 
          
      
    
  
    
        
      
        
                
     
  
                
      
         
        
         
 
  
    
 
        
     
      
     
                 
  
     
       
        
       
       
       
             
      
        
  • bu event booking forms 
• bu event evaluation forms; 
• attendance at bu events; 
• application forms ; 
• your response to specific requests from us during our admissions process . 
we work with trusted third -party partners (such as whatuni and findamasters) to promote our 
courses. when we do, we ensure appropriate security measures and contractual data processing 
agreements are in place. it will also be made clear to you at the point of collection what information 
is being collected and for what purposes. if you are unhappy with how your personal data has been 
processed by a third- party affiliate of bu, please contact our data protection officer 
at dpo@bournemouth.ac.uk. 
we may also obtain information about you in other ways, for example through your attendance at 
external student recruitment fairs (e.g. ucas) , from any agent or representative acting on your behalf 
or from people you identify as referees in an application form. in the case of apprenticeships , we may 
obtain information your employer. where data protection legislation applies to these third parties , 
they should provide separate privacy information which covers their sharing of your data with bu. 
further information relating to you is then generated through our responses to your enquiries or 
applications. 
3. how we hold your data 
before you make an application to bu 
data relating to your interest in or attendance at events and data relating to your enquiries to us and 
our response is captured through a variety of methods and held within our customer relationship 
management (crm) system within bu’s it systems , or within spreadsheets or other records kept by 
our doctoral college in relation to enquiries about postgraduate study. 
where you give consent to be contacted with further information about bu, its events or services, the 
contact details and information about your interests which you have provided are also held within our 
crm system and will be used to send you relevant communications .  
after you make an application to bu 
applications to study at bu are held electronically within bu ’s sits student record system. where we 
provide a portal for applicants to communicate with bu through the admissions process (e.g. the 
myhub portal), this links to the sits system. the only exceptions to this are applicants for health and 
social care cpd courses and apprenticeships : these applications are processed through a separate 
online application system, but if your application is successful some of your information will be 
transferred to the sits system to create your student record. 
if you apply to bu through ucas , we will also access your application and process associated 
information through the ucas secure data portal. 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 5 
  
 
                         
           
           
 
        
        
 
                 
                
      
  
        
   
 
                
      
            
   
 
        
           
      
           
     
         
  
 
       
       
         
     
       
       
       
    
 
            
     
       
      
 we also hold some of your data in our crm system and use this to send you any communications 
which are not part of our core admissions process. 
4. how and why we process your data for bu purposes 
this part of the notice is divided into the following sections which deal with different types or 
purposes of data processing within our recruitment and admissions processes .  
within each section, the main text gives an outline of the processing activity. for those that wish to have a more detailed understanding of the processing, including its legal basis, you can 
read the text marked “ more information ”. 
events 
• administering your booking & attendance at student recruitment events including our open 
days. 
we use data you provide to process your booking and provide information about the event. 
your data may be transmitted to us through a third -party booking system. sometimes this 
will include information about your health conditions or disabilities, where these affect 
arrangements for your attendance at an event 
more information: the data we process for these purposes is data provided by you. 
it will include your name, contact details , information about the event you wish to 
attend and possibly information about the nature of your interest in bu, e.g. the 
course level and subject(s) you are considering . this data is used by bu staff to 
process your booking or provide further relevant information about the event. t his 
may include contacting you (via email, sms, telephone or post) with booking 
confirmations, event joining instructions or other information about that event. 
to facilitate efficient booking processes, we use a range of different forms or apps to 
capture your data and may use external booking systems to issue tickets and 
administer bookings. where we use external booking systems , your data will be 
transmitted through these external systems and the companies providing those 
systems will give you separate privacy information about how they manage and 
protect your data while transmitting it. this will include information about whether 
they will transfer your data outside the european economic area in the course of 
providing their service. 
necessary for legitimate interests pursued by bu, i.e. running events to increase 
awareness of bu’s courses and what we do and to share knowledge of interest 
to the public and enabling your attendance at such events where you have 
expressed a wish to/interest in doing so. 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 6 
  
 
            
        
  
      
           
      
        
               
   
 
         
 
          
    
       
         
               
                
       
        
           
   
 
    
 
                  
               
     
 
          
      
 
      
           
 
          
   
  
      
     
 
 
              
        
        sometimes we may ask you to let us know of any dietary requirements or preferences 
to enable us to provide appropriate catering options at an event. similarly, we may 
ask you whether you have any additional needs with regard to accessing events, and of course we will also respond to any such needs which you notify to us at any point. 
where your responses relate to health conditions or disabilities you have, thi s means 
that you will be providing us with special category data which requires additional 
protection. we will only process this information where you have agreed to provide 
it to us and for the purposes of facilitating your access to, and safe attendance at, our 
events. 
consent: you have agreed to this processing 
we will hold your data within our systems for a limited period (no longer than five 
years ) so that there is a record of your booking, and we can respond to any queries 
about it and manage any issues with event administration . we will deactivate your 
details within the crm system when we determine that you are unlikely to still be interested in bu events: this will normally be around 18 months to two years after the 
last event you booked, but in any event, we will deactivate your details no later than 
five years after the last event attended. different retention periods may apply to data 
held on the systems of any third -party ticketing providers we use, but we will be 
working with them to manage data appropriately in accordance with the data 
protection legislation. 
• photographing or filming o ur events 
we often take photographs or film at events that we host, so that we can use them for 
marketing purposes which may include public display and distribution of the images. you can 
opt out of your image being recorded and used in this way. 
more information: if we record images of you at one of our events, these images may be 
used in one or more of the following ways: 
o prospectuses and other university promotional materials 
o as part of an advert or advertisement feature (which includes possible use on 
outdoor media such as buses and billboards) 
o on our website, intranet, or the websites of our partners 
o in promotional videos created by the university 
o in email com munications 
o on our social media channels 
o in non -university publications which our marketing team have approved and 
authorised. 
if you are attending one of our events and you do not want your image to be used then you can usually opt out of having your image captured or used . just let the photographer 
and a member of our staff know. the photographer will then aim not to take any images 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 
7 
  
 
            
          
      
     
    
 
             
  
 
            
    
 
         
 
    
 
               
   
 
        
              
    
        
       
 
       
      
       
          
             
          
       
   
    
  
   
              
       
    
    
 
             
              
    
   of you. you are also advised to try yourself to stay out of any shots or footage being taken, 
as you may appear in the background in error. if you have notified a member of our staff 
that you do not want your image to be used as described above (before any materials are 
sent to print or released into the public domain) , we will not include images of you in any 
published version of these materials. 
if bu uses your image as described above and you later decide that you do not wish this to 
continue, please contact mcdesign@bournemouth.ac.uk . 
necessary for legitimate interests pursued by bu, i.e., increasing awareness of bu’s 
courses and what we do and sharing information of interest to the public. 
• responding to enquiries or requests for information which you make during an event 
see enquiries section below . 
• with your agreement, sending you information about other events likely to be relevant or 
of interest to you 
the data we process for these purposes is provided by you, usually during a bu event, when 
you register for a bu event or in the course of making an enquiry to bu. it will include your 
name, contact details and preferences and information about the nature of events you may 
be interested in attending. this is used by bu staff to send you information about events. we 
often use external mailing systems such as dotdigital to manage our mailings of this type. 
more information: you will have completed a form or answered questions on the phone 
to confirm your agreement to receiving particular types of information and may have 
been asked to indicate your method(s) of communication. you may have done this when 
registering on line for an event or while attending an event , or when making an enquiry 
to bu . we only send you these communications with your agreement and in line with 
your stated preferences. any external mailing system used, such as dotdigital , should 
provide you with separate privacy information about how they handle your data. you can 
change your preferences or stop these contacts at any time by emailing the unsubscribe 
contact identified in the event information or by contacting the future students enquiry 
team. 
we will hold your contact details and contact preferences information in our systems. 
during this time , your data is likely also to be processed to carry out general analysis 
of levels of engagement with our communications, but this analysis will not be used 
as a basis for individual communications to you. 
we will carry out periodic review of our mailing lists. we will stop sending you 
communications when we determine that they are unlikely to still be of use or interest 
to you (based on the course and year of entry in which you originally expressed an 
interest). this is normally around 18 months to two years after you contact ed us, but 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 8 
  
 
                    
    
 
         
 
              
                 
    
 
  
      
 
         
               
           
      
   
  
 
        
      
 
                 
       
          
     
     
       
 
           
          
   
                 
                
 
 
        
        
      
    
         
          in any event , we will deactivate your details within the crm system no later than five 
years after you contact ed us. 
consent: you have agreed to this processing 
we do not share our mailing lists with any third parties who would use it to contact 
you separately . we do use a third party mailing house to send out post on our behalf 
but they would only contact you on our behalf, not for any other purposes. 
enquiries 
• responding to your enquiry about study at bu 
the data we process for these purposes is provided by you when you make your enquiry , 
whether you make your enquiry in writing, by phone , by live chat/chat bot, in person (e.g. at 
a bu event) or through the unibuddy platform . it will include your name and contact details 
and information about your enquiry/the nature of your interest in bu. this data is used by bu 
staff to respond to your enquiry. it is also stored in our customer relationship management 
(crm) system and used for analysis, as described in the next section of this notice . 
more information: this will include sending you relevant information about bu by the 
most appropriate method of communication (email, phone or text).   
we will keep details of you and your enquiry for a maximum of five years . this is to 
help us respond more effectively to any further enquiries you make of bu in the 
future, and to carry out analysis as described below. where you later make an 
application to study at bu, within our records we will link this additional information 
and the outcome of your application to your original enquiry details so that we can 
analyse the links between enquiries, applications and successful applications. 
necessary for legitimate interests pursued by bu, i.e. providing information to 
increase understanding of bu’s courses and services amongst potential applicants to 
bu. 
• with your agreement, sending you further information likely to be relevant or of interest to 
you 
the data we process for these purposes is provided by you. it will include your name, contact 
details and preferences, and the content of your original enquiry to bu. this is used by bu 
staff to send you information which we think will be of interest to you based on the nature of 
your original enquiry. this would include information about courses and application 
processes, events and other bu services or activities. we often use external mailing systems 
such as dotdigital to manage our mailings of this type. you will be able to make some choices 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 9 
  
 
             
   
  
       
    
         
              
          
        
   
      
  
 
             
              
    
              
              
     
 
         
 
                   
    
      
      
         
      
    
     
 
       
             
        
      
     
      
           
  
   
            
 about the forms of communication we can use for these communications (if any), i.e. email, 
phone or sms. 
more information: you will have completed a form or answered questions on the 
phone to confirm your agreement to receiving particular types of information, and 
you will have been asked to indicate which method(s) of communication you accept.   
we only send you these communications with your agreement and in line with your 
stated preferences. any external mailing system used, such as dotdigital , should 
provide you with separate privacy information about how they handle your data. you can change your preferences or stop th ese contacts at any time by emailing the 
unsubscribe contact identified in the event information or by contacting the future 
students team. 
we will carry out periodic review of our mailing lists. we will stop sending you 
communications when we determine that they are unlikely to still be of use or interest 
to you (based on the course and year of entry in which you originally expressed an 
interest). this is normally around 18 months to two years after you contact ed us, but 
in any event, we will deactivate your details within the crm system no later than five 
years after you contact ed us. 
consent: you have agreed to this processing 
we do not share our mailing lists with any third parties who would use it to contact you separately. 
• contact through unibuddy 
if you are using unibuddy to chat with our student ambassadors or you have joined unibuddy 
communities , you will have been given links to separate privacy notices explaining how your 
information will be processed through the unibuddy platform and shared with bu. once your 
information is transferred into bu’s systems, it is processed as described above. this includes 
sending you further information about bu by email, if you ticked the relevant consent box within 
the unibuddy platform. 
analysis of your contact with bu 
we carry out analysis of enquiries to bu and attendance at bu events , including external 
recruitment events . this includes making links between enquiries/attendance at events and 
any subsequent applications to study at bu made by the same individuals . this involves 
carrying out statistical analysis of the information you provide when making enquiries or 
attending events and link ing application information to information in your previous enquiries 
or about attendance at events. we do this to help us improve the quality and relevance of 
our communications with enquirers, potential applicants and applicants, and to help increase 
our engagement with particular groups as part of o ur work on widening participation in higher 
education at bu. sometimes we use third party specialists to do this type of work for us. 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 10 
  
 
                     
          
     
        
     
    
           
        
    
 
 
           
         
                
   
           
      
      
  
 
          
     
             
   
 
              
  
      
 
 
       
 
            
    
       
     
     
      
 
 
        
        
        more information: we carry out analysis of the nature of enquiries to bu and how 
these develop into further engagements with or application s to bu. we also carry out 
analysis of attendance at our events and events we are present and collect data at .  
for example, we may analyse the demographic profile of attendees by reference to 
postcode , gender or age -range information you have given us. this is to help us 
ensure that our events and responses to enquiries are appropriately accessible, that 
we send appropriate communications about events and to help us increase participation of particular groups. it also assists the on -going development of bu, its 
courses and services and its communications and our understanding of the people likely to be interested in coming to bu . 
when we carry out this analysis, we separate the relevant data fields (e.g. postcode) 
from your name, and then carry out statistical analysis . this work is not concerned 
with you as individuals: we do not use the information to identify you as an individual 
or take any decisions about you. the analysis is held separately and not linked back to 
you as an individual. sometimes we will ask a third party organisation to carry out 
this analysis for us, but we do not share named information with them . they will be 
required to keep the information secure, use it only for the purposes of statistical 
analysis for us and delete it when this work is completed . 
necessary for legitimate interests pursued by bu, i.e. running /attending events 
to increase awareness of bu’s courses and what we do and to share knowledge 
of interest to the public, widening participation in such events and fulfilling bu’s 
duties under the equality act 2010. 
necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest: bu’s core purpose as a statutory higher education corporation, to deliver higher 
education and carry out research, compliance with guidance and requirements 
from our regulator the office for students with regard to widening access to higher education 
use of data for digital marketing 
• use of applicants’ email addresses in connection with targeted digital advertising 
we may pass email addresses of applicants to our third party data processor which provides 
advertising and digital media services to bu. they use the email addresses along with 
information and tools on social media platforms to identify other people (who have not 
already applied to bu) who may be suitable recipients of digital advertisements relating to 
bu and then to deliver adverts to them on that social media platform. t his is called finding 
“lookalike audiences” and is a common approach within digital advertising.  it is based on 
identifying individuals w ho share certain interests, connections or characteristics with 
people who have already applied to us, using information in their social media profiles. we 
do not use this data to target advertising at the owners of the email addresses, i.e. people 
who have already applied to bu, unless we have collected consent to do so, nor will our data 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 11 
  
 
         
      
      
  
           
        
  
 
 
 
         
      
  
  
 
     
    
               
 
      
   
    
    
   
   
   
 
       
   
     
       
     
   
 
      
       
      
 processors use it to contact you in any way . individuals should only see this advertising in 
accordance with the social media platform’s privacy/website & cookies policies and if they have agreed to this within their preferences/privacy settings for the platform. 
more information 
necessary for legitimate interests pursued by bu, i.e. providing information to increase understanding of bu’s courses and services amongst potential applicants to 
bu. identifying the individuals most likely to find this information useful. 
• why am i seeing digital adverts from bu? 
there are several different routes through which you may end up seeing targeted digital 
advertising of bu.  you may have been identified as an appropriate recipient of our adverts 
through identification of a “lookalike audience” as described in the previous section, or 
based on on line behaviours using cookies (which record visits to or interactions with 
particular webpages) or programmatic/smart display advertising. this may include 
advertising generated using cookies/pixels created when you visited the bu website. 
we use targeted digital advertising because we believe it is a good method for providing 
individuals with information of genuine interest and use to them and widening the field of 
applicants to bu, while avoiding a situation where other individuals are giv en information of 
no relevance or interest to them. 
these methods of targeting advertising do not involve processing your personal data , i.e. 
any data that definitively identifies you as an identifiable individual. you should only see this 
sort of advertising in accordance with: 
o the cookies policy on any websites recording cookies/pixels for use in targeting advertising and any relevant preferences you have set on those websites; and 
o the privacy policies of the site or browser which displays the adverts and any 
relevant preferences you have set on those sites/browsers . 
the cookies policy for bu’s website can be viewed here . this includes information about 
how to let us know of any concerns about management of your cookies. 
applications & the admissions process 
• processing of a ll applications 
we process the data provided in your application and further information provided by your 
referees for the purposes of evaluating your application to study at bu. the data will be managed by bu’s admissions team s and will also be accessed by relevant individuals in bu’s 
faculties if this is necessary to determine whether we are able to make you an offer to study 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 
12 
  
 
               
           
     
               
  
        
  
 
       
        
          
        
 
   
       
  
       
   
           
        
      
     
 
     
      
 
     
 
             
         
           
 
  
              
  
    
   
 • 
• at bu. in the case of apprenticeships, this will be handled by faculty directly and the central 
apprenticeships team. whereas, cpd courses are managed directly by the faculty. 
if you provide us with the details of a referee within or in connection with your application, 
we will process the personal data of those referees in order to contact them to request 
references or any further information required in relation to references already provided. 
we will not separatel y notify you before we contact your referees. we will process the 
information provided by referees along with other information in your application. 
in the postgraduate research admissions process, we may share your application data with 
external individuals (in academic or other roles) for the purposes of assessing an application 
for use of an external supervisor, or for studentships with funding from ext ernal 
organisations such as nhs or private sector companies . we will not separately notify you 
before we share your data in this way. we will process this information along with other information in your application. 
if we have doubts about the validity of any qualifications you have listed in your application 
or questions about the content or level of your qualifications , we will usually share 
information in your application with third parties for the purposes of understanding and 
verifying your qualifications. this may include the organisation identified as having awarded 
a qualification , any external agency which provides a qualification checking service or uk 
naric (the uk national recognition information centre), which is contracted by the uk 
department for education to provide an official source of information on international education and training systems, and international qualifications and skills. 
more information: the information in your application form and references will be 
processed as required to apply our admissions policies and processes [https://www1.bournemouth.ac.uk/important -information ]. within bu w e will use 
it for the purposes of applying those policies and procedures. applications received 
(or the information provided within applications) is stored in our sits record system 
or in a separate system for health and social care cpd courses and apprenticeships .  
if you come to study at bu then information originally provided in your application 
may later also be processed as described in the student privacy notice . 
necessary for the legitimate interest of processing your application 
necessary for performance of bu’s public task as a higher education 
corporation, to apply our academic standards for admission with a view to 
providing you with higher education 
necessary in order to take steps at your request prior to entering into a 
contract, i.e. in order to apply our admissions process with a view to you 
entering into our student agreement 
• communications with applicants 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 
13 
  
 
                    
 
   
 
           
    
 
 
               
      
             
                
  
 
 
    
 
   
  
 
        
   
      
      
              
  
     
 
            
   
   
       
     
          
  
       
  
      
    • 
• when you have made an application to study at bu we will use the contact details 
provided on your application to send you information related to your application and 
your potential future study at bu . 
our admissions team will contact you as necessary for the conduct of the admissions process. in the case of apprenticeships and cpd this may be the faculty or the central 
apprenticeships team. 
as well as contacting you as part of the admissions process, we also like to keep in touch 
by sending you other information, e.g. about the course you’ve applied for or events which may be interesting or helpful to you. the content of these email communica tions 
will be relevant to you. however you can choose to opt out of receiving these additional communications. 
more information: 
the communications from our admissions team /faculty/apprenticeships team will 
include information about the progress of your application or steps you need to take 
in relation to your application (e.g. providing more information or attending an 
interview).  they also include communication of our admissions decisions i.e. 
whether we can offer you a place and the type of offer we are making. these 
communications will usually be sent by email, but on occasion we may need to telephone you or send you an sms message. you cannot opt out of these 
communications as we need to be able to contact you about your application. 
necessary in order to take steps at your request prior to entering into a 
contract, i.e. in order to apply our admissions process with a view to you 
entering into our student agreement and enable you to access other 
services 
necessary for bu’s core public task as a university, operating an admissions 
process to ensure that places on higher education courses are offered to the 
most appropriate candidates 
the additional communications we send you will include details of relevant bu events such as open days and information about the course or faculty to which 
you’ve applied. these communications will be in the form of emails and sms from 
our marketing & communication department .  you can opt out of receiving these 
emails by clicking the “unsubscribe” button on any email you receive from the 
address ezines@newsletters.bournemouth.ac.uk or by emailing our future students 
enquiry team futurestudents@bournemouth.ac.uk . opting out of these additional 
communications will not affect our handling of your application in any way. 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 
14 
  
 
               
       
        
   
 
   
 
           
        
 
            
 
     
 
              
    
    
         
 
 
       
  
  
            
  
     
 
         
      
           
          
     
 
     
         
           
 
      
   
             
  necessary for the legitimate interest of processing your application, 
ensuring you have relevant information about your potential future study at 
bu and ensuring you will be able to access relevant associated services. 
consent: you have agreed to this processing (if you do not opt out). 
• criminal records information 
at the application stage we do not ask for or process within bu any information about 
matters on your criminal record. 
as part of the ucas process, applicants to regulated professions courses (i.e. courses 
intended to lead to registration with a regulated health or social care profession) are 
asked by ucas to complete a relevant criminal matters declaration on the ucas 
application form. however bu does not consider or take any account of this declaration 
within its admissions process unless and until bu has offered a place to the applicant 
and you have decided to accept the offer .  at this point we ask offer -holders to decl are 
certain criminal matters/convictions to bu: what you are asked to declare will depend on the course on which you’ve been offered a place. please see below for more 
information. 
• processing data on educational disadvantage, health/disability, ethnicity, religion and sexual orientation 
your data processed within our admissions process at bu includes a ny information 
which you provide in your application or otherwise within these categories: o indicators of potential educational disadvantage and other widening participation 
factors, including whether you are a care -leaver 
under our accessbu scheme, when assessing applications for undergraduate courses 
(including undergraduate apprenticeships) we take into account a number of factors 
which may have affected applicants’ access to education or previous academic performance. we make contextual offers to applicants who fall into one or more of the 
automatically -assessed categories listed on the accessbu website (see t he “eligibility” 
section at www.bournemouth.ac.uk/accessbu ) or who submit an accessbu application 
and supporting evidence to demonstrate how their personal circumstances have had a 
negative impact on their post -16 studies or performance at gcse. this is in line with our 
admissions policy and our access & partici pation plan (as approved by ofs). if you are a 
care -leaver, if you are offered a place at bu this information will also be shared with our 
student services department so that they can determine what support bu may be able 
to provide with your studies and living arrangements. 
necessary for compliance with a legal obligation on bu: compliance with office for 
student regulatory requirements to implement an approved access & participation 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 
15 
  
 
        
   
              
 
   
  
             
    
 
       
        
  
         
      
 
    
  
     
  
    
             
        
     
      
   
     
  
        
 
    
 
       
   
      
       
       
 
          
 
            
   
 
 plan, to increase access to higher education for currently under -represented 
categories of potential student 
necessary for the performance of bu’s core public tasks: ensuring fair access to our 
higher education provision and widening participation in higher education, in 
accordance with our access and participation plan approved by the office for 
students 
o health conditions, disabilities and needs for additional support, if this information is 
provided to us in your application or during the admissions process 
the ucas application form and the bu application form give you an opportunity to 
provide information about any disability you may have . you (or your referees) may 
also choose to tell us about any health condition or other support need you may 
have if you have questions about how this may affect study at bu or the support we 
would be able to offer you , or this has affected your previous study and you would 
like us to take this into account in the admissions process as described above .  we 
use this information for statistical purposes , to enable us to signpost applicants to 
sources of support and for admissions purposes as a factor indicating educational 
disadvantage, as described above and in our admissions policy 3b . otherwise , this 
information is not considered as part of the admissions process and does not affect 
bu’s decision on whether to offer you a place, except in the exceptional situation 
where we determine that a disability, health condition or other support need means 
that it will not be possible you to meet the mandatory requirements of the course 
for which you have applied, even if you meet the academic criteria for admission 
and even if bu makes all reasonable adjustments to meet your needs. further 
details about this are provided below, where we describe the information , we ask 
you to provide w hen you accept an offer from bu. 
consent: you have agreed to this processing. 
o ethnic origin, sexual orientation, gender identity and religious beliefs 
the ucas application form and the bu application form collects ethnicity data from 
all applicants . the ucas application form also collects data about your sexual 
orientation, gender identity and religious belief where you agree to provide it. this 
information is special category data, and it is only provided to us by ucas after the 
completion of the application cycle. it is processed only for the purposes of equal 
opportunities monitoring and analysis, to meet our duties under the equality act 
2010. bu does not use it to take any decision about you. 
necessary for compliance with our legal obligations under the equality act 2010, in particular the public sector equality duty and our ofs conditions of 
registration 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 
16 
  
 
                 
      
    
  
 
    
 
      
 
            
                 
       
      
          
    
              
  
     
   
     
  
     
              
  
   
   
 
        
 
           
            
      
          
         
  
 
  
    
 
         
                • 
• 
• necessary for the purposes of substantial public interest, i.e. identifying or 
keeping under review the existence or absence of equality of opportunity or 
treatment as provided for in paragraph 8 of schedule 1 to the data protection 
act 2018 
• applications through ucas 
where you apply to us through the universities and colleges admissions service 
[ucas] , ucas share with us your application and further information such as your 
examination results. our response to your application will be shared by us with ucas, who will communicate our decision to you. we are able to access your application and 
share information with ucas through a secure portal system. once we receive your 
application through ucas, we will ask you to create an account within the bu myhub 
portal, which will use individual log- in details.  the myhub system is part of the sits 
records system which bu also uses to maintain student records. this enables you to 
monitor the progress of the admissions process and we will use the myhub portal to 
send you messages about your application. 
more information: further information about processing of data within the ucas 
process is provided in the ucas privacy notices and the ucas applicant terms, which are available on the ucas website https://www.ucas.com/corporate/about -
us/privacy- policies -and- declarations . these should have been brought to your 
attention when you were preparing and submitting your ucas application. 
necessary in order to take steps at your request prior to entering into a contract, i.e. in order to apply our admissions process with a view to you 
receiving an offer and entering into our student agreement 
• direct applications to bu 
where you apply directly through the bu website, you will be directed to complete an 
online application form.  at this point you will be asked to create an account within the 
bu myhub system which will use individual log -in details.  the myhub system is part of 
the sits records system which bu also uses to maintain student records. creating a 
myhub account at the application stage enables you to save drafts and work on the form 
over time and submit it online. once you have submitted your application, you can use 
the myhub portal to monitor the progress of the admissions process and we wil l use it 
to send you messages about your application. 
if you agree, we may also use the information in your myhub account to contact you to 
offer support with completing an application and provide you with further information 
more information: when you create a myhub account for your application we will ask 
whether you agree to us reviewing the content of your account and contacting you. the 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 
17 
  
 
           
 
              
      
  
   
 
       
 
    
 
   
     
  
    
     
     
 
         
 
 
         
      
     
     
    
  
          
     
     
 
      
    
     
         
 
       
          
    
         
    • purpose of the contact would be to offer support with your draft application and provide 
further information which might be relevant in association with your application.  we 
will only contact you in this way if you agree to it. 
necessary in order to take steps at your request prior to entering into a 
contract, i.e. in order to apply our admissions process with a view to you 
receiving an offer and entering into our student agreement 
consent: you have agreed to this processing 
• specific categories of application: clearing, external application routes , partner bodies 
o applications through clearing 
if you apply to bu through clearing and have not submitted a ucas application in 
the relevant application round, we will ask you to complete a record of prior 
acceptance ( rpa) form.  the conten t of this is determined by ucas and includes 
contact details, educational history and relevant criminal conviction information. 
the data is processed by ucas and bu in order to manag e the application process 
and determine whether bu will offer you a place. 
o applications made through other organisations (including applications for llm 
legal practice ) 
applications for some courses are received via other organisations who provide a 
gateway for particular applicants or to access particular courses. this includes 
applications for the llm in legal practice, applications for the pg dip ma social 
work (children & families) and health visiting/school nursing programmes which 
are made through the department for education and applicants through the common app process established in the us a.  applications received in this way will 
usually need to be entered manually into bu’s sits/m yhub system and processed as 
set out above. you should receive separate privacy information from any relevant 
external organisation about the processing of your data within their system s. 
o applications to bu partner bodies 
wiltshire college & university centre operates under a franchise partnership 
arrangement with bu. it applies bu admissions criteria and the bu admissions 
policies. bu and wiltshire college & university centre will therefore share 
information within applications for study at wiltshire college & university centre as 
necessary to operate the admissions process, and this may include bu accessing your ucas application through the ucas data portal. bu processes this data on the 
same basis as any other application, as set out above. 
applications to other bu partner organisations are processed by the partners and bu 
does not have access to applicant personal data. 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 
18 
  
 
         
        
   
 
 
       
 
    
    
             
            
 
    
 
 
 
       
     
 
  
 
              
 
 
    
 
        
      
   
        
  
        
   
    
      
 
          
     more information 
the legal basis for processing these categories of processing is the same as 
the basis stated above for processing the same types of data in rel ation to 
applications generally 
international applicants 
• communications with agents acting on behalf of enquirers and applicants 
if you have instructed an agent to represent you in making enquiries and/or an application 
to bu, with your agreement we will then communicate with your agent and share your 
personal data with them. 
more information: we will share your information with an agent only: 
o where we have a representation agreement with the agent; and 
o the agent has obtained your clear consent to this sharing of your 
information. this will usually mean that you have signed a standard consent 
form issued by bu to the agent. 
the information we share will include responses to enquiries and any offers we 
make to you. 
consent: you have agreed to this processing 
necessary in order to take steps at your request prior to entering into a 
contract with us 
• communications with applicants by bu in-country representatives 
applicants based in china, india, nigeria, pakistan and vietnam may be contacted by bu 
representatives based in those countries. these are consultants working under contract 
with bu, who offer support to applicants in progressing their application and accessing 
relevant information from bu. for this purpose, bu provides the consultants with secure 
access to applicants’ data (name, course applied for, contact details , application/offer status 
(including updates on progress through the admissions process) and the name of any agent 
acting on the applicant’s behalf). this information will be held securely by these consultants 
and only used by them for the purposes of providing support to applicants as described 
above. if you do not want to be contacted by our country representative, or want contact 
with them to stop, just let us know – either by telling the in-country representative or by 
emailing iat@bournemouth.ac.uk . 
necessary for legitimate interests pursued by bu or another organisation, i.e. 
supporting applicants who may find it more difficult to understand or manage the 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 19 
  
 
          
    
  
 
      
  
 
    
     
               
      
     
 
           
     
   
 
  
   
       
 
 
  
 
 
    
 
 
       
      
        
      
   
              
 
            
 
     
          
 
  
 • admissions process and increase the chances of applicants taking up any offer of a place from bu 
consent: you have agreed to this processing 
• communications with enquirers and applicants based outside the european economic area 
if you and/or an agent representing you are based outside the uk while communicating with 
us (whether through making an enquiry or an application to bu), then it will obviously be 
necessary for us to send your personal information back outside the uk in order to respond. 
this information will also be sent outside the uk for use by our in-country representatives as 
described above, unless you tell us that you do not wish to be contacted by them. 
qs enrolment solutions (qses) will be used to process some post graduate taught (pgt) 
applications from international applicants to offer level. processing includes marketing, 
communications and analysis of data to improve our s ervices. 
more information: 
necessary for the implementation of pre -contractual measures taken at the 
data subject’s request consent: you have agreed to this processing 
• sharing your data with kaplan in connection with bournemouth university international 
college (buintcol) 
this applies if we either offer you a place at bu conditional on completion of a pre -sessional 
english course, or if we reject your offer but feel that you may benefit from a preparatory 
course before making further similar applications. with your agreement we will share some information about you with kaplan an official contracted party of bu so that they can 
contact you by email with information about pre -sessional or preparatory courses relevant 
to you. kaplan operates buintcol , which offers pathways into further study at bu. 
more information: we would share your name, email address and limited 
information about your application to bu.  you will be asked if you consent to this 
sharing when you complete your application. if you don’t consent at that stage we 
will ask you again if we send you a re levant offer or rejection decision. 
consent: you have agreed to this processing . 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 
20 
  
 
           
 
      
     
  
 
 
     
             
  
 
      
 
      
  
     
      
        
 
 
 
      
             
     
         
 
  
  
          
  
 
         
 
 
           
              
    
        
         
       
 
           
             • immigration and visa applications 
if you require a student visa or in the case apprenticeships the ‘right to work’ in order to 
study in the uk , we will need to process the data in your application, and collect further 
information from you, for purposes relating to immigration and visa applications.  
in the case of apprenticeships, it might be necessary to use a share code provided by you to 
verify your right to work status using the uk government’s right to work website. 
alternatively, you might be asked to provide us with a copy of your british resid ency permit 
card, which we would retain. 
for students that require a student visa, we will need to review the information in your 
application to identify whether you are likely to obtain a visa: this may affect our decision on 
whether to make you an offer .  later (if you accept an offer from bu) we will process your 
information to issue the confirmation of acceptance of studies (cas) or any equivalent 
document that you will need in order to apply for a student route visa and to comply with 
our legal obligations as a student visa sponsor. this may include sharing your data with uk 
visas and immigration (part of the home office within the uk government). 
if you are from the eu and eligible for eu settled status (meaning you will not require a visa 
to study in the uk), before enrolling at bournemouth university, you will need to provide us 
with a copy of your passport and evidence that you have either obtai ned or applied for eu 
settled status from the uk government. additionally, if you do not need a student route 
visa and plan to study at bournemouth university under a different immigration category, 
you will need to provide us with a copy of your passport and evidence of your valid visa or 
immigration status to demonstrate your eligibility to study in the uk. however, no further 
information for immigration purposes will be required during the admissions process. 
more information: prior to determining applications, we will review them in order 
to identify any applicants who will require a visa to study in the uk and who we 
consider would not meet the requirements for a student visa (previously known as a 
tier 4 visa). where this is the case, this is likely to result in bu refusing the 
application .  
at this stage we also identify any applicants who appear to be unable to provide all 
of the documentation we usually use to issue a cas. if you are one of the small 
number of people for whom this is relevant, with your agreement we will ask the 
home office to provide us with your immigration history: as required by the home office, we will notify you before we contact them for this purpose and ask whether 
you consent to us receiving this informatio n. 
once you have received an offer from bu, you have accepted the offer and you have 
met any other conditions on your offer (i.e. your offer status is “unconditional 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 
21 
  
 
               
 
       
       
   
      
    
    
     
                 
 
        
     
      
     
  
  
 
     
       
      
      
    
 
             
   
  
 
  
 
 
    
           
  
  
           
   
          
     • firm”), we will process your information in order to issue a cas or equivalent 
document. in the case of postgraduate students, you will also be required to pay a 
fee deposit before we issue a cas.  at the moment we can only issue a cas a 
maximum of six mo nths before the date on which your studies are due to 
commence. to issue a cas we are required to obtain a copy of your passport and to 
review documentation relating to previous visas you have obtained to study in the 
uk, your previous qualifications and any cas documents you previously obtained 
from a university or other education provide r in the uk. w e may also request 
additional documents associated with your visa application if we deem it necessary to assess the likelihood of a successful visa application. these enable us to assess 
whether you are likely to meet the requirements for issue of a student visa. we are 
legally required to retain copies of some of this documentation, including your 
passport, for the length of your study at bu. w e are required to store this for uk 
visas and immigration (ukvi) purposes for a period of 1 year aft er graduation or 
until a compliance officer from the ukvi has assessed the documents whichever is sooner. in the case of apprenticeships we have to retain evidence of funding 
eligibility (including r ight to work) for 6 years from financial year end after course 
completion, as per guidance for training providers . 
as at the earlier stage, i f you are not able to provide all of the documentation we 
need to make this assessment, with your agreement we will ask the home office to provide us with your immigration history: as required by the home office, we will 
notify you before we contact them for this purpose and ask whether you consent to 
us receiving this information. 
necessary for compliance with a legal obligation on bu: our obligations as a student visa sponsor/licence holder under the immigration legislation and 
immigration law requirements with respect to holders of eu settled status 
consent: you have agreed to this processing 
if you are offered a place at bu 
• communications from bu 
after we have offered you a place at bu, we will continue to use the contact details provided 
on your application to send you information related to your offer and your potential future 
study at bu. 
our admissions team will contact you as necessary for the conduct of the admissions 
process. 
we also like to keep in touch with our offer -holders. we want to send you information, e. g. 
about the course you’ve applied for or events which may be interesting or helpful to you , 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 22 
  
 
         
             
   
    
      
  
    
 
              
     
              
  
      
 
            
   
   
     
  
        
        
        
           
      
    
    
           
       
   
   
         
       
        
 
 
  
 
                   
 
 • remind you about key dates and offer support through the next stages of the admissions process. however you can choose to opt out of receiving these communications which are 
not directly related to your offer and the admissions process. 
more information: the communications from our admissions team will include information about the admissions process and the status of your offer and communications about any 
steps you need to take in relation to your offer (e.g. submitting information or 
evidence ).  these communications will usually be sent by email, but on occasion we 
may need to telephone you or send you an sms message. you cannot opt out of 
these communications as we need to be able to contact you about your offer. 
necessary in order to take steps at your request prior to entering into a 
contract, i.e. in order to apply our admissions process with a view to you entering into our student agreement and enable you to access other 
services 
necessary for bu’s core public task as a university, operating an admissions 
process to ensure that places on higher education courses are offered to the most appropriate candidates 
the additional communications we send you will include information about relevant 
events, messages to support you through the admissions process and information 
about steps you will need to take to prepare for student life and life at bu. email is 
our main method of sending these communications , but we may also contact you by 
phone, sms , or post. you can decide to opt out of any one or more of these 
methods of communication by following links which will be provided with your offer 
letter, clicking the “unsubscribe” button on any email you receive from the address 
ezines@newsletters.bournemouth.ac.uk or by emailing our future students enquiry 
team futurestudents@bournemouth.ac.uk . however, opting out of emails may 
mean that you miss out useful/important information: if you decide to opt out, we 
suggest that you check our website regularly for relevant information. opting out of 
these additional communications will not affect our communications about your offer. 
necessary for the legitimate interest of processing your application, 
ensuring you have relevant information about your potential future study at bu and ensuring you will be able to access relevant associated services. 
consent: you have agreed to this processing (if you do not opt out). 
• other processing of your information: 
o we will share data about the offer with ucas and with any agent representing you 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 23 
  
 
         
 
   
    
       
 
      
    
      
     
     
               
        
  
    
      
    
 
              
   
        
 
 
            
  
     
          
  
  
   
 
   
 
         
    
 
     
       
  
      
      o if your offer is conditional on completion of a pre -sessional english programme 
(psep), with your agreement we will share your name, contact details and 
information about our offer to you with our partner organisation kaplan so that they 
can contact you with information about the psep programmes available at the 
bournemouth university international college which is run by kaplan (see above). 
o our admissions policy recommends that if you have or may have needs for 
additional support with your learning or require other adjustments to enable you to 
access your course and associated assessments , then if we make you an offer y ou 
should directly contact our additional learning support (als) team to discuss any 
specific support needs or potential needs and the support that will be available 
within bu. during the process of registering with the als service you will be given 
detail s on the way in which w e will process your information. we will only process 
the data about your disability and support needs if you decide to give us the 
information and consent to this processing.  the als team is the appropriate first 
point of contact for discussing all support and adjustment needs, even if these are not learning support needs as such (e.g. need for physical/premises adjustments). 
o we will process data in applications to identify applicants who have received an 
offer who have relevant music or sports qualifications, so that we can contact them 
with information about bu music and sports scholarships (this does not apply to cpd 
courses or apprenticeships) .  
o we will process information for immigration/visa purposes as described above. 
more information: 
the legal basis of this processing is: 
necessary for compliance with a legal obligation on bu: our 
obligations as a student sponsor/licence holder under the 
immigration legislation and immigration law requirements with 
respect to holders of eu settled status 
consent: you have agreed to this processing 
necessary for the legitimate interests of administering your offer 
and enabling you to access the course and associated support at bu. 
when you decide to accept an offer from bu 
this section explains the way in which we will communicate with you once you have accepted an offer from bu. 
in addition, when we have offered you a place to study at bu and you decide that you want to 
accept the offer, we will need to process some further information about you before your place at 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 
24 
  
 
                 
 
       
      
     
         
                   
                  
     
     
          
           
  
  
           
   
                
       
   
 
      
    
   
    
     
    
     
   
 
         
     
                 
 
              
  
      
 
            
   
   • 
• bu is finally confirmed. what is involved varies depending on the course on which you’ve been 
offered a place .  within this part of the privacy notice there is one section which applies only to 
people who wish to accept a place on a regulated professions course in the faculty of health & 
social sciences, and a separate section which applies only to people who wis h to accept a place on 
any other bu course . 
aside from the processing described in this privacy notice, once you have accepted an offer from bu 
we will begin to process your data in preparation for your arrival at bu and for a number of purposes which will continue through into your time as a student at bu. information about this processing is set out in our student privacy notice. at this stage you may want to look in particular at the sections 
on accommodation, immigration, occupational health and criminal convictions/dbs checks. 
• communications from bu (applies to anyone accepting an offer on any bu course) 
after you have accepted a place at bu, we will continue to use the contact details provided 
on your application to send you information related to your offer and your potential future 
study at bu. 
our admissions team will contact you as necessary for the conduct of the admissions 
process. 
we also like to send you additional communications to keep in touch and make sure you 
have all the information you need to plan and prepare for your time at bu. with your 
agreement we will send you regular communications for this purpose, which include information about important practical steps you need to take e.g. in relation to 
accommodation, accessing support at bu and arranging financial support. however, you can 
choose to opt out of receiving these communications which are not directly related to your offer and the admissions process (any applicant who previously opted out of these 
additional communications will now start to receive them, unless they opt out again at this stage). 
more information: the communications from our admissions team will include communications about 
the post -offer clearance checks described below, reminders to provide further 
information required e.g. to show you have met conditions on your offer and to let 
you know of any changes to your course. these communications will usually be sent 
by email, but on occasion we may need to telephone you or send you an sms 
message. you cannot opt out of these communications as we need to be able to 
contact you about your place. 
necessary in order to take steps at your request prior to entering into a 
contract, i.e. in order to apply our admissions process with a view to you 
entering into our student agreement and enable you to access other 
services 
necessary for bu’s core public task as a university, operating an admissions 
process to ensure that places on higher education courses are offered to the 
most appropriate candidates 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 
25 
  
 
          
          
  
 
 
   
     
        
       
     
    
     
  
     
  
  
     
        
            
     
         
         
       
         
   
 
        
   
          
             
 
     
                 
  
       
  
      
    
      the additional communications we send you will include: information relevant to 
you about life at bu, your bu course and your faculty; invitations to relevant events; 
and information, links and reminders to help you take important practical steps in 
preparation for your life at bu, including information about applying for bu 
accommodation or finding other accommodation, arranging financial support, 
registering with bu’s additional learning support service and accessing other bu 
services and sources of suppo rt. email is our primary means of communicating with 
you, but we may also contact you by phone, sms , or post. you can decide to opt out 
of any one or more of these methods of communication by following links which will 
be provided in your offer letter, clicking the “unsubscribe” button on any email you 
receive from the address ezines@newsletters.bournemouth.ac.uk or by emailing our 
future students enquiry t eam futurestudents@bournemouth.ac.uk . however, 
opting out of emails may mean that you miss out important information: if you 
decide to opt out, we suggest that you check our website regularly for relevant 
information.  opting out of these additional communications will not affect our core 
communications about your place at bu . 
to minimise the chances of people missing out on important information, when you 
accept an offer, you will start to receive these additional communications even if 
you previously opted out of receiving them at the application stage. if you still do not want to receive these communications despite accepting an offer from bu, you 
will need to opt out a gain now. 
necessary for the legitimate interest of processing your application, 
ensuring you have relevant information about your potential future study at 
bu and ensuring you will be able to access relevant associated services. 
consent: you have agreed to this processing (if you do not opt out). 
• additional processing of information: if you’ve been offered a place on a “regulated 
professions course” 
this refers to certain health & social care courses within bu’s faculty of health & social sciences 
which include mandatory work placements in the regulated professional environment and which are 
listed in this guidance document. 
• declaration of criminal records matters 
when you accept an offer to study at bu we require you to declare and provide details 
of any matters on your record which would be disclosed through an enhanced 
disclosure & barring service check. we also require you to complete an enhanced dbs 
check, either immediately after you have declared matters on your record or, if you did 
not declare anything, before enrolment. we use this information to assess your 
suitability for your chosen course/profession and your a bility to meet the course 
requirements to complete work placements in the regulated professional environment. 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 
26 
  
 
          
          
             
       
  
 
   
         
    
      
        
       
    
   
  
      
   
   
    
             
     
     
      
 
    
      
       
 
              
  
          
   
 
      
      
 
 
  
           
       bu uses a third- party organisation called atlantic data ltd to administer disclosure and 
barring service (dbs) checks on our behalf. bu shares limited personal details with 
atlantic data ltd as part of this process (title, forename, middle name, surname, g ender, 
date of birth, email, student id). a copy of atlantic data ltd privacy statement is 
available here : https://policydocuments.disclosures.co.uk/privacy_statement.pdf 
if you have matters on your criminal record, these are not usually an automatic bar to 
acceptance on to a regulated professions course, i.e. declaring a relevant criminal matter 
does not necessarily mean that bu will refuse to offer you a place. however we must 
consider your criminal record before confirming that you can start your course. this is 
because a criminal record is relevant to whether you will be able to meet professional 
body requirements for entry to the profession and because the mandatory elements of 
these courses include work placements where you will be performing “regulated 
activity” in contact with vulnerable people. our process for considering this information 
is set out in our policy 3e (admissions policy for applicants with a crimin al record) [ see 
also this guidance document ].  
as for all other offer -holders, if a matter on your criminal record is a “relevant 
conviction” as defined in this guidance, we will carry out a wider risk assessment as 
described in the section below. 
more information: 
we ask about spent convictions and other criminal matters in relation to regulated 
professions courses because the purposes for which we use this information make 
our question exempt from the rehabilitation of offenders act 1974. 
information about your criminal record is only processed or shared within bu as 
necessary to carry out the risk assessment processes as described in our policy 3e 
(admissions policy for applicants with a criminal record) and to complete any risk 
control actions identified in risk assessments. where that assessment is carried out 
by a bu panel (disclosure panel or criminal conviction panel), information is given to 
panels in anonymised (no -names) form. 
where risk assessment results in a decision that we need to pass some information 
about your record and our risk assessment in identifiable form to individuals within 
bu or at third party organisations (e.g. accommodation provider), we will tell you 
before this happens. 
in relation to any application, you make for registration with a professional 
regulatory body, bu may disclose (on request from the professional body) 
information about whether you declared certain criminal records matters to us. 
otherwise information about criminal records which is collected before you start 
your course at bu will not be further processed or shared within bu unless this is 
necessary to manage any issue which arises in connection with the accuracy of 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 27 
  
 
         
    
 
             
    
      
   
            
   
      
  
                 
      
 
         
   
  
 
 
         
  
 
         
   
  
 
   
  
 
     
   
      
      
 
     
       
   
 
     
     
 
      
      previous declarations made to bu or in connection with any later 
concerns/additional criminal matters arising in relation to a student. 
necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest: 
this refers to the university’s role in supporting the regulation of health and 
social care professions by assessing the suitability of applicants to courses 
leading to those profe ssions, its task of providing education in accordance 
with its own regulatory requirements and the wider duty of the university 
and professional regulators to safeguard people within the university 
environment and people in the health and social care work placement 
environment. 
we can only process this type of information where it falls into one or more of the 
paragraphs in schedule 1 to the uk data protection act 2018. the relevant 
paragraphs are: 
•paragraph 6: necessary for the exercise of a function conferred by law: 
this refers to the university’s need to comply with regulatory 
requirements set by the office for students, in particular regulatory 
conditions b1 and b2 
•paragraph 18: necessary for the purposes of safeguarding, i.e. protecting 
individuals from risks of neglect, harm or damage to well -being 
•paragraph 11: necessary for the exercise of a function intended to 
protect members of the public against seriously improper conduct, 
unfitness etc. 
• disabilities, h ealth conditions and learning support needs, including o ccupational 
health checks 
you can choose to give us information at any time about any health conditions, disabilities or 
other support needs which need to be taken into account in respect of any aspect of your 
course. we encourage applicants to discuss their support needs with us during the 
admissions process and/or once you have accepted an offer. 
in any event, where your course requires you to undertake work placements within health 
and social care settings, before the start of the course you must undergo an occupational 
health assessment to ensure you meet vaccination requirements, and to identify any risks or 
issues which may affect your ability to complete the placement and any needs you have for 
specific support in your placement, e.g. due to health conditions or disability. your personal 
data will be shared with the university’s supplier of student occupational health services 
(currently dorset healthcare university hospitals nhs foundation trust).  outcomes from 
this assessment process will be shared with bu if they identify needs for support/ reasonable 
adjustment to be put in place in the university and/or work place environment or if there is 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 28 
  
 
           
         
   
 
          
     
     
 
   
      
 
      
   
 
       
      
    
      
 
 
          
    
 
       
   
      
  
 
           
      
        
           
    
        
    
   
             
     
         
 concern about your ability to undertake the required work placements in the professional 
environment. further information will be given to you when we make the referral to the 
service. 
where you provide relevant information to bu or it is disclosed through the occupational 
health check process, we will collaborate with you and placement providers to address any 
potential issues related to your ability to access and complete the course. 
our approach includes: 
1. identifying potential issues : we will work together to identify any challenges that might 
impact your participation in the course. 
2. implementing support and adjustments : where necessary, we will put in place 
reasonable adjustments and support to assist you in both the bu and placement environments. 
3. managing exceptional cases : in rare instances where a condition or disability may 
prevent you from meeting the compulsory course requirements, even with all 
reasonable adjustments, we will address these situations according to our 3d 
admissions policy and procedure for applicants w ith a disability, medical condition, or 
other support needs. 
please note that if the required adjustments cannot be met, it may result in the withdrawal 
of your place on the course. 
this will usually involve sharing of some of your information with placement providers or 
representatives of placement providers: we will keep you informed about this and only 
share information as necessary for these purposes. 
more information: within the occupational health services provider, data relating to 
your health conditions or disabilities is processed only by healthcare professionals 
who are subject to professional obligations of confidentiality. 
necessary for performance of bu’s core public task, i.e. delivery of 
higher education and research 
necessary for healthcare purposes, including assessment of working 
capacity, medical diagnosis, provision of treatment or the management of 
healthcare arrangements. 
necessary to protect your vital interests or those of another person, i.e. to 
prevent or manage significant risks of harm 
necessary for the purposes of substantial public interest: safeguarding 
vulnerable people 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 29 
  
 
                  
   
   
       
  
 
        
    
        
               
      
       
  
 
  
 
    
          
   
     
    
 
 
   
 
   
      
         
      
       
 
              
  
          
   
 
         
           
       
   
    
 • additional processing of information: if you’ve been offered a place on a course which 
is not a “regulated professions course ” 
this section does not apply to anyone applying regulated professions courses within the 
faculty of health & social sciences (as identified in the section above). 
• information about relevant criminal convictions 
everyone accepting an offer to study at bu is asked to tell us if they have certain relevant 
unspent criminal convictions, as defined in our guidance. if you have a conviction of this 
kind, we may ask you for more information about the offence and your current 
circumstances. we process this information for risk assessment purposes, as set out in our 
policy 3e: admissions policy for applicants with a criminal record. in addition, it may be 
necessary for you to complete a disclosure & barring service (dbs ) check if you choose 
certain placement options on your course (this applies to placements which involve working 
in a regulated environment e.g. in a hospital or with children). more information about this 
is set out in policy 3e and the student privacy no tice, and in this guidance document . 
bu uses a third- party organisation called atlantic data ltd to administer disclosure and 
barring service (dbs) checks on our behalf. if a dbs check is necessary bu will share limited 
personal details with atlantic data ltd as part of this process (title, f orename, middle name, 
surname, gender, date of birth, email, student id). a copy of atlantic data ltd privacy statement is available here : 
https://policydocuments.disclosures.co.uk/privacy_statement.pdf 
more information: 
information about your criminal record is only processed or shared within bu as 
necessary to carry out the risk assessment processes as described in our policy 3e : 
admissions policy for ap plicants with a criminal record and to complete any risk 
control actions identified in risk asses sments. where that assessment is carried out 
by a bu panel (disclosure panel or criminal conviction panel), information is given to 
panels in anonymised (no -names) form. 
where risk assessment results in a decision that we need to pass some information about your record and our risk assessment in identifiable form to individuals within 
bu or at third party organisations (e.g. accommodation provider), we will tell you 
before this happens. 
otherwise information about criminal records which is collected before you start 
your course at bu will not be further processed or shared within bu unless this is 
necessary to manage any issue which arises in connection with the accuracy of 
previous decla rations made to bu or in connection with any later 
concerns/additional criminal matters arising in relation to a student. 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 
30 
  
 
                   
    
 
     
                 
      
 
    
  
 
  
 
    
 
             
  
  
 
           
             
     
     
   
                 
              
    
    
                
       
      
 
   
 
            
 
     
          
    
  
     
   necessary for the performance of a task carried out in the public interest: 
this refers to the university’s task of providing education in accordance with 
its own regulatory requirements and the wider duty of the university to 
safeguard people within the u niversity environment. 
we can only process this type of information where it falls into one or more of the paragraphs in schedule 1 to the uk data protection act 2018. the relevant 
paragraphs are: 
•condition 10: necessary for the purposes of prevention or detection of 
unlawful acts 
•condition 18: safeguarding, as above 
• disabilities, health conditions and learning support needs 
when you accept our offer of a place we ask you to share information about any disabilities, 
health conditions, impairments (physical, mental, psychological or learning -based) or other 
needs you have which: 
o may affect your ability to access your course at bu 
o may affect your ability to access other aspects of life at bu 
o could result in you experiencing a medical emergency while at bu 
o mean that you need extra support, either generally or in relation to 
specific aspects of your studies or life at bu 
we will use this information to work with you to ensure that we identify any potential issues 
with your ability to access and undertake the course (including exams or assessments), to 
put reasonable adjustments and support in place where required and to as sess and manage 
any potential health and safety risks to you and others. 
we will ask you for this information at this stage regardless of whether you have previously 
declared a disability during the admissions process. any information provided previously 
during the admissions process is not sufficient for the purposes outlined above. 
more information: 
consent: this means that you have agreed that we can use your data for this 
specific purpose 
some of our courses include mandatory requirements for students to work in 
environments which could affect health and safety, or which require certain physical 
capabilities, such as workshops, laboratories or outside environments. this will be 
stated in the course information on the bu website.  where you are accepting a 
place on one of these courses and you have a disability, health condition or 
impairment which could affect your ability to carry out the required course activities 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 31 
  
 
       
                 
      
        
  
       
    
     
       
      
            
                 
   
   
  
  
 
  
    
  
    
  
 
    
 
   
      
   
 
      
 
      
        
 
                
       
              
   
   
      
 fully and safely, we have to ask you to share this information with us so that we can 
make sure that you and others will be safe and that you are able to complete the 
mandatory requirements of the course. 
otherwise you do not have to provide us with this information about health 
conditions, disabilities or support needs at this stage , and there is no deadline for 
notifying us of support and adjustment needs. however we encourage you to share 
information at this stage, so that we can identify any significant access 
considerations as soon as possible, and have the best chance of putting any 
appropriate support and adjustments in place fo r the start of your time at bu. it can 
take time to assess needs and put support in place. we can only start to do this 
where you have given us the relevant information. any information that you provide 
will be used for the following purposes to the extent that they are relevant to you: 
o to enable us to work with you to establish needs for adjustments or 
support to be put in place: this could mean ensuring that you have 
access to equipment required to manage a learning support need, 
adjusting examination arrangements e.g. to give you extra time, 
arranging for your classes to be delivered in a location that is physically 
accessible to you or making arrangements for course content/materials 
to be avail able in accessible formats; 
o to identify, assess and manage any health and safety risks: for example, 
if your course requires you to undertake activities in a workshop , lab or 
outdoor environment and you have a condition which could affect your safety or that of others in this environment; 
o to enable people around you to respond promptly and appropriately to 
a medical emergency which may arise from a known condition while 
you’re at bu (e.g. seizures, loss of consciousness or allergic reactions); 
o to identify and manage the small number of cases in which your 
condition or disability may affect your ability to complete compulsory 
course requirements even if all reasonable adjustments are put in place. 
these situations arise very rarely and are consid ered under section 12 of 
our admissions policy 3b (taught programmes)). 
we will review any information you provide, tell you which (if any) of these purposes we 
think may be relevant to you and give you information about our proposed next steps. we 
will need to work together with you to understand any conditions or disabiliti es you have 
and their impact, so you will always be involved in these processes and kept informed about how we plan to process your information. 
5. overseas t ransfers of your personal data 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 32 
  
 
                 
               
           
             
             
               
            
        
 
                
  
 
                 
             
          
            
           
             
 
              
             
            
            
          
    
 
    
 
        
            
         
 
   
                 
     
   
        data protection laws limit our ability to transfer personal data outside the countries within 
the uk and countries, such as the those within the european economic area, which are subject to an adequacy decision (restricted transfers) (i.e. the countries which are subject 
to the same or very similar data protection laws). this is to help ensure that a consistent 
level of data protection applies to your data at all stages of processing, and that you are not exposed to additional privacy risks through the transfer of your data. restricted transfers are only permitted in certain circumstances. where such restricted transfers are necessary, we ensure that we have appropriate safeguards in place. 
there may be a restricted transfer of your personal data outside the uk in the following 
circumstances: 
• where we use a cloud-based it system to hold your data, and the data in the cloud is stored on servers located outside the uk in a country which is not subject to an adequacy decision. in these circumstances we safeguard your data through 
undertaking appropriate checks on the levels of security offered by the cloud 
provider and entering into a contract with them which applies protections of the same type and level required by data protection laws within the uk; 
• where you are based outside the uk in a country which is not subject to an adequacy decision, and we need to send you emails or other communications which are necessary for the performance of our contract with you or for implementing pre -
contractual measures which you have asked us to take (e.g. processing your application or enquiry). in these circumstances the data protection laws say that transfer is permitted; or 
• with your consent. 
6. retention: how long will we keep your data for? 
we ha ve given information in section 4 about the length of time for which we will keep your 
personal data in connection with some categories of processing/data. bu is undertaking a review of 
its retention policies and future versions of this notice will contain more specific references to 
retention period s for different categories of data or links to relevant retention schedules . 
in general, we will aim to retain your personal data only as long as necessary for the purposes of the 
processing which are explained above, and any secondary purposes such as audit, regulatory and 
legal record -keeping requirements. 
7. your rights as a data subject and how to exercise them 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 33 
  
 
                     
 
 
       
 
 
     
 
        
 
    
 
     
 
        
       
      
 
                
       
 
  
   
   
        
 
             
        
 
 
                  
      
   
       
 
 
   
  
    
  under the data protection laws you have a number of rights in relation to our processing of your data.  
in summary these are: 
• right to request access to your data as processed by bu and information about that processing 
[“subject access request”] 
• right to rectify any inaccuracies in your data 
• right to request erasure of your data from our systems and files 
• right to place restrictions on our processing of your data 
• right to object to our processing of your data 
• right to data portability: where we are processing data that you have provided to us, on the 
basis of consent or as necessary for the performance of a contract between us, you have the 
right to ask us to provide your data in an appropriate format to you or to another controller . 
most of these rights are subject to some exceptions or exemptions, depending on the purposes for 
which data is being processed. 
if you have any questions or concerns about our processing of your data, please contact the bu data 
protection officer (dpo): 
email: dpo@bournemouth.ac.uk 
telephone: 01202 962472 address: poole house, bournemouth university, fern barrow, 
poole bh12 5bb 
if you would like to exercise any of your rights as outlined above, you can contact the dpo as above 
or visit the data protection page on our website for more information and to access the subject access 
request form. 
we will always aim to respond clearly and fully to any concerns you have about our processing and requests to exercise the rights set out above. however, as a data subject if you have concerns about 
our data processing or consider that we have failed to comply with the data protection legislation then 
you have the right to lodge a complaint with the data protection regulator, the information 
commissioner: 
online reporting: https://ico.org.uk/concerns/ 
email: casework@ico.org.uk 
tel: 0303 123 1113 
post: 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 
34 
  
 
       
  
  
 
  information commissioner’s office 
wycliffe house water lane 
wilmslow cheshire sk9 5af 
student recruitment & admissions privacy notice published september 20 24 
35 
